I worked it into the seal spell
so that I would appear within your psyche,
should the seal be broken to the point you sprouted the eighth tail.
I really wanted to avoid that...
Since I had no desire to see you again...Nine-Tails.
Then again...
I did look forward to seeing my son as a young man.
So I'll call it even.
Fourth Hokage!
Come here! I'll rip you to shreds!
Well, if that's the case, I'll stay away.
Right, Naruto?
Naruto... My name...
How come the Fourth Hokage knows my name?
Hm?
Well...I'm the one who named you.
You are my son, after all.
Son? Then...I'm...
Yes.
You heard me. You're my son.
Fourth Hokage!
Loud fellow, isn't he?
Let's go somewhere quiet.
Third Hokage didn't tell you much of anything, did he?
I guess he wanted to suppress as much information about Nine-Tails as possible.
If people had found out you were my son,
you'd have been in danger.
Dad...
Why did you seal the Nine-Tails inside your own son?!
Do you know what I went through because of that?!
All the grown-ups looked at me with contempt...
And I couldn't make any friends.
I wanted people to accept me,
so I trained really hard to become strong.
Then I met Iruka Sensei, and Kakashi Sensei, and Pervy Sage...
And I was happy because they helped make me stronger!
But because of that, a group called the Akatsuki came after me,
so I had to train even more.
I got to be even stronger, but the Akatsuki still killed my friends.
But...huh? What am I saying?
Damn it, am I supposed to be happy or mad?!
I don't know anymore!
Naruto... How old are you now?
Sixteen.
Wow... You're already sixteen years old, huh?
It must have been hard for you... I'm sorry, Naruto.
I suppose after putting my own son through so much...
I have no right to act like a father and apologize.
It's all right...already.
I'm the son...of the Fourth Hokage... so I can handle it.
I sealed half of the Nine-Tails' chakra inside of you,
because I believed you could control its power.
Because you are my son.
And there is a reason why I did this.
When the Nine-Tails attacked the village sixteen years ago,
I learned something.
What?
There was a mastermind who manipulated the Nine-Tails
to attack the village.
Mastermind?
A powerful ninja at that.
It would require a special kind of power to go up against such an opponent.
I believe he will attack our village again.
The Leaf Village has already been destroyed.
Yes... I watched from inside you.
You watched?!
I know about Jiraiya Sensei too.
Then was it Pain who used the Nine-Tails to attack the village before?
No... It wasn't him.
Then who was it?!
One of the Akatsuki.
The one with the mask.
Back then... he read through every action I took.
He's no ordinary ninja.
This man is probably just using Pain.
No! Pain had a grudge against the Hidden Leaf!
He said, long ago, his own village was wiped out like ours!
That's right.
Because of that hatred, he's being used.
Used?! Someone strong like him?!
And what about this mastermind masked ninja?
Why is everyone attacking the Leaf?
Perhaps as long as there is a ninja system in this world,
there can be no peace.
Pain questioned you about peace...
But finding the answer is difficult.
How would you confront this hatred, in order to create peace?
In order to save something dear... wars are waged.
As long as there is love, there will be hate.
And some will take advantage of that hatred.
This monster known as hate will not die while there is a system of ninja.
It will give birth to more Pains.
It was Pain who killed Jiraiya Sensei,
but upon careful thought, it can be said
that the chaotic world of the ninja, which gave rise to Pain, is equally guilty.
To be a ninja is to confront hatred.
Each and every one of us battles hatred.
Jiraiya Sensei trusted you to find a way to end this hatred.
Still, I can't forgive Pain!
There's no way I can forgive him.
I know...
Fourth Hokage... Tell me!
What should I do?!
FOURTH HOKAGE You must find the answer yourself.
I do not have the answer.
If Pervy Sage and you don't know the answer, how am I to know?!
Everyone expects too much!
I'm not smart!
And I'm not a great ninja!
And...
I know you'll find the answer.
I have faith in you.
Really?
You really believe I can do it?
To be a parent is to have undying faith in one's child.
Now then... It's time for me to go.
My chakra's fading.
Huh?!
No, wait...
I will rebuild the seal.
However, this will be for the last time.
The Leaf can be rebuilt.
I'm counting on you...Naruto!
Thanks...Dad!
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Fourth Hokage
He is crawling out of the Planetary Devastation.
What incredible strength.
I must increase the size...
The Nine-Tails...disappeared?!
His doubt is gone...
What happened?
Does he now have control over the Nine-Tails?
Nagato!
The transformation into the Nine-Tails disturbed my chakra.
It made me lose my Shadow Clone.
I can only use the Sage Jutsu Chakra I have left inside of me.
He's already in Sage Mode.
He's tough.
I had to confirm the extent of the Nine-Tails' power,
but I never imagined he could stop my Planetary Devastation.
I thought I was going to die!
What the...?
That's where the village is...
What happened?
You did it, Naruto, when you were in the Nine-Tails state.
I killed Hinata, and the people of the Leaf Village?!
She's alive...
I can sense Hinata's chakra.
I was worried,
but no casualties resulted from your assault
in the Nine-Tails state.
We were lucky.
I see.
Thank goodness. What a relief.
Naruto...
Lady Hinata!
Her injuries aren't fatal, but she needs treatment immediately!
I'll find some Medical Ninja right away.
The Leaf Village is under attack by the Akatsuki!
I cannot move anymore! Hurry and go!
I didn't know things were this bad.
There's an injured toad here too.
It's time to settle this.
Have you come to understand a little of what pain is?
Unless you know the same pain, you cannot truly know another.
And even if you get to know others, there can be no understanding.
That is the truth.
Just like how it's useless to chase after Sasuke.
Take me to where the real Pain is!
I want to speak to you face-to-face.
Hmm... So you figured that out?
Jiraiya Sensei and now you...
You Leaf Ninja are quite impressive.
However, our discussion is over.
Talking with you will change nothing.
Let me talk to him!
Sage Mode...
It seems you can only throw two of those nasty chakra shuriken.
Isn't that so?
After that, you will run out of Sage Mode!
I guess I have no choice but to fight you!
If both of your shuriken miss, you shall lose.
I will give you no more chances.
All that's left is to dodge your attack, and then bring your half-dead body with me.
Too bad then...
I'll just look for the real Pain myself!
But how?
I have an idea.
He reverse-tracked me using Sage Mode!
Found you!
Bastard!
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
Now! Smoke Bombs!
Right!
Here comes the first shuriken.
Almighty Push!
What?! He had already launched the second one using Shadow Shuriken Jutsu?!
His jutsu interval is five seconds!
I can do this!
Four seconds to go!
He was already standing by with a Shadow Clone back then.
Three more seconds until I can use my next jutsu.
But he missed both shots...
It's over.
What?!
We still have two more seconds! Go!
He had this many Shadow Clones transformed into rubble?!
One more second!
Zero!
He's now using Shadow Clones as back up!
Someone like you who has no answer...
should just give up!
But I have faith that
there will come a time when people can truly understand one another.
And if I can't find the answer, perhaps I will entrust you to find it.
I know you'll find the answer.
I have faith in you.
Only you can surpass the Fourth Hokage.
I truly believe that.
He withstood it... Impossible!
That jutsu cannot be thrown.
I have five seconds.
This distance will work for me.
Give up...
...on me giving up!
Rasengan!
When the fireworks suddenly explode in the air...
fui ni agatta hanabi wo futari de miageta toki
I couldn't keep my eyes off from your face...
muchuu de miteru kimi no kao wo
sotto nusumimita no I gazed at you quietly...
It'd be so much easier if I was able to hate you...
kimi no koto kirai ni naretara ii noni
Because I always remember you, in situations like this...
kyou mitai na hi ni wa kitto
I can't help but think about the times we spent together.
mata omoidashiteshimau yo
I'm ready to forget you...
mou wasureyou kimi no koto zenbu
It just tears at my heart too much.
konna ni mo kanashikute
I wonder... why did we meet each other?
doushite deatteshimattan darou When I close my eyes...
me wo tojireba It's like you are here.
ima mo kimi ga soko ni iru you de
You're here.
That must mean you defeated the sixth Pain.
It doesn't matter who won or lost.
What happened?
In any case, I'm on my way to see the real Pain.
Please don't follow.
I want to go alone.
Alone?!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Two Students"
There's something I want to confirm with him.
GUY'S ROOM
Yamato's Room has been renamed Guy's Room!
Hello, this is your idol... Might Guy!
Our guest today is the pride of the Leaf Village,
kunoichi Hinata Hyuga!
H-Hello.
Aw come on. Don't be so bashful on my program.
O-Oh umm... She is extremely introverted and shy.
Her hobby is pressed flower art.
She loves cinnamon rolls and sweet bean jam?
Forget the script!
I'll just ask you things I'm curious about.
That's what a live, youthful interview is about!
Huh?!
By the way, Hinata...
You've really matured lately. Let me guess, you're in love, right?
- W-Well... - All right, then!
Look straight into that camera and say what's in your heart!
I-I can't... If you're too shy, I'll help you!
I-I... Let's do it... Okay, love confession in...
three, two, one, go!
I-I can't!
Tune in again!